README.md, before:

![alt text](docker_hub_deployment.png)


# docker-geoserver

## How to run it
Pull the image from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/geosolutionsit/geoserver/)

`docker pull geosolutionsit/geoserver`

And run it

`docker run --name gs -p 8080:8080 geosolutionsit/geoserver`

Open your browser and point it to `http://localhost:8080/geoserver` . 
GeoServer web interface will show up, you can now log in with user admin and password `geoserver`.

There are some [**environment variables**](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/) you can use at run time:
- `JAVA_OPTS` to customize JAVA_OPTS for the container
- `GEOSERVER_LOG_DIR` to customize log placement
- `GEOSERVER_DATA_DIR` to put your GeoServer datadir elsewhere
- `GEOWEBCACHE_CONFIG_DIR` to put your GeoServer cache configuration elsewhere
- `GEOWEBCACHE_CACHE_DIR` to put your GeoServer cache elsewhere
- `NETCDF_DATA_DIR` to put your GeoServer NETCDF data dir elsewhere
- `GRIB_CACHE_DIR`o put your GeoServer GRIB cache dir elsewhere

## How to build it
If you want to build the image by yourself just run `docker build` from the root of the repository

` docker build -t geoserver:test . --build-args GEOSERVER_WEBAPP_SRC="./geoserver.war"`

There are [**build arguments**](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/build/) to customize the image:
- `GEOSERVER_DATA_DIR_SRC` to add your own custom datadir to the final image. This can be a local zip or directory or remote URL (see [ADD](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#add) instruction Doc)
- `GEOSERVER_WEBAPP_SRC` to add your own custom web app to the final image. This can be a local zip or directory or remote URL (see [ADD](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#add) instruction Doc)
If you want to build or package your own web app you can customize the "mother" stage of Dockerfile accordingly

##Docker Hub build process

Scripts provided that are for docker hub are under `hooks` directory.

Basically the `hooks/build` script takes these environment variables with current version numbers offered for geoserver:


```
export MAINT_VERSION="2.17.3 2.17.2 2.17.1"
export MIDDLE_STABLE="18"
export NIGHTLY_MAINT_VERSION="2.17.x"
export NIGHTLY_MASTER_VERSION="master antani"
export NIGHTLY_STABLE_VERSION="2.18.x"
export STABLE_VERSION="2.18.1 2.18.0"
```

Notes: 

Phantom version `antani` is supposed to always fail as a test and always tried to be built.
"MIDDLE_STABLE" has just a function for the scripts logic, increase it with latest minor version number for stable.

To test locally build hook you can use the `test_hooks.sh` script provided.

Commit message:

added Documentation for custom_build.sh script and in its help description

README.md, after:

![alt text](docker_hub_deployment.png)


# docker-geoserver

## How to run it
Pull the image from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/geosolutionsit/geoserver/)

`docker pull geosolutionsit/geoserver`

And run it

`docker run --name gs -p 8080:8080 geosolutionsit/geoserver`

Open your browser and point it to `http://localhost:8080/geoserver` .
GeoServer web interface will show up, you can now log in with user admin and password `geoserver`.

There are some [**environment variables**](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/) you can use at run time:
- `JAVA_OPTS` to customize JAVA_OPTS for the container
- `GEOSERVER_LOG_DIR` to customize log placement
- `GEOSERVER_DATA_DIR` to put your GeoServer datadir elsewhere
- `GEOWEBCACHE_CONFIG_DIR` to put your GeoServer cache configuration elsewhere
- `GEOWEBCACHE_CACHE_DIR` to put your GeoServer cache elsewhere
- `NETCDF_DATA_DIR` to put your GeoServer NETCDF data dir elsewhere
- `GRIB_CACHE_DIR`o put your GeoServer GRIB cache dir elsewhere

## How to build the Dockerfile with no helper scrips
If you want to build the image by yourself just run `docker build` from the root of the repository

` docker build -t geoserver:test . --build-args GEOSERVER_WEBAPP_SRC="./geoserver.war"`

There are [**build arguments**](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/build/) to customize the image:
- `GEOSERVER_DATA_DIR_SRC` to add your own custom datadir to the final image. This can be a local zip or directory or remote URL (see [ADD](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#add) instruction Doc)
- `GEOSERVER_WEBAPP_SRC` to add your own custom web app to the final image. This can be a local zip or directory or remote URL (see [ADD](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#add) instruction Doc)
If you want to build or package your own web app you can customize the "mother" stage of Dockerfile accordingly

##Docker Hub build process and related helper scripts

Scripts provided that are for docker hub are under `hooks` directory.

Basically the `hooks/build` script takes these environment variables with current version numbers offered for geoserver:


```
export MAINT_VERSION="2.17.3 2.17.2 2.17.1"
export MIDDLE_STABLE="18"
export NIGHTLY_MAINT_VERSION="2.17.x"
export NIGHTLY_MASTER_VERSION="master antani"
export NIGHTLY_STABLE_VERSION="2.18.x"
export STABLE_VERSION="2.18.1 2.18.0"
```

Notes:

Phantom version `antani` is supposed to always fail as a test and always tried to be built.
"MIDDLE_STABLE" has just a function for the scripts logic, increase it with latest minor version number for stable.

To test locally build hook you can use the `test_hooks.sh` script provided.

## How to use `custom_build.sh` script

the script can be run with no parameters to show the needed parameters:

```
./custom_build.sh
Usage: ./custom_build.sh [docker image tag] [geoserver version] [geoserver master version] [datadir| nodatadir] [pull|no pull];

[docker image tag] :          the tag to be used for the docker iamge
[geoserver version] :         the release version of geoserver to be used; you can set it to master if you want the last release
[geoserver master version] :  if you use the master version for geoserver you need to set it to the numerical value for the next release;
                              if you use a released version you need to put it to the release number
[datadir| nodatadir]:         if this parameter is equal to nodatadir the datadir is not burned in the docker images
[pull|no pull]:               docker build use always a remote image or a local image
             docker build use always a remote image or a local image
```

This script is meant to be used by Jenkins jobs, custom private builds, variety of tests with highly customized versions of geoserver.
It can burn a custom datadir inside the docker image (it will expect data dir in ./resources/geoserver-datadir by default), or just create a dockr image with the geoserver artifact.

### Example

```
./custom_build.sh my-docker-tag 2.18.x 2.18.x dev "no pull"
```
